Tools for receiver function (RF) processing and modelling.
    G. Helffrich/U. Bristol
    last updated 1 Mar. 2012

    These require a functioning SAC and i/o library, and the Buland and Kennett
    tau-P tables and their subroutine interface library.  They also require
    versions of the Numerical Recipes (NR) routines four1.f and realft.f.  Note
    that NR version 2 of realft.f is required.

    Users are requested to cite (as appropriate):
       Helffrich, G. Extended-time multi-taper frequency domain
       cross-correlation receiver function estimation. Bull. Seismo. Soc. Am.,
       v. 96, 344-347, 2006.

       Lodge, A., Helffrich, G. Grid-search Inversion of Teleseismic Receiver
       Functions Geophys. J. Int., v. 178, 513-523, 2009.

Major components:

mtrf:  SAC macro to run the mtdecon program to estimate receiver functions
    using the multitaper method of Park and Levin.

mtdecon:  Program invoked by mtrf to do the heavy lifting.

hk: Program to do RF Moho analysis using Zhu and Kanamori stacking.

sacrfmigrate: Program to migrate a collection of RFs to a common slowness
    for modelling and/or interpretation

ss-stack, ss-stack.sh:  SAC macro to display slowness-based record section
    for receiver functions.

sacxymag:  Utility used by ss-stack macro to amplify parts of SAC XYZ file.

sacslantstack:  Utility program used by ss-stack for picture-based
    slowness analysis of RFs.

sachdrinfo:  Utility program used by ss-stack for picture-based slowness
    analysis (picture annotation; this is also distributed with MacSAC in
    sacio.a).

Pstimes:  Utility program used by ss-stack for picture-based slowness
    analysis (picture annotation) and moveout curves on record sections.

rfxsect:  SAC macro to calculate and display a group of stacked and migrated RFs
    on a geographic cross section.  Uses sacrfmigrate.

vsfromrfamp:  Shell script to estimate station Vs from amplitude of zero-lag
    RF peak.

setrfslow:  Utility program to calculate RF slownesses from the event
    information in the SAC file header.

RForward:  Directory containing modified versions of Chuck Ammon's RF forward
    modelling tools.

RInversion:  Directory containing modified versions of Chuck Ammon's RF
    inversion tools.  snglinv and manyinv are the most useful.
    exhsearch - build grid search input over models given constraints from a
       target RF.

RForward/RespKennett:
    rfksyn -  calculate fast synthetics from a structural model
    rfmisfit -  calculate RF misfit compared to a target
    makemodel - a basic upper mantle model for transition zone RF synthetics
    runsyn - run a suite of synthetic RFs and calculate a misfit to a target
       RF, given a list of model input files.

Misc. subroutines:

    rsach.f:  Return header information in SAC files (this is distributed in
    MacSAC in sacio.a).
