Tau-p programs and utilities -- G. Helffrich/U. Bristol,1991 - 2010.
   Last revised 21 Jan. 2010.

This code is a modification of the original Buland and Kennett code to compute
  tau-p tables for the iasp91 model.  I modified it to do the following things:

1) do automatic configuration;
2) remove Fortran language constructs that prevent it from compiling on the
   GCC Fortran compilers;
3) to write table formats that are self describing (in size) and do not require
   recompilation of previously-built travel time tables if the table storage
   size changes;
4) adds additional phases to the set that is computed in the tables, viz.
   depth phases for ScS and PcP and diffracted phases for PKP branches;
5) adds a subroutine-callable interface to the tables;
6) adds tables for different models (see below);
7) adds more depth phases and optionally more core phases.

See README for a lengthy description of the changes.

This will build the ttimes program and various useful models:
  iasp91, ak135, fakeprem, fakeprem20s, sp6, kghj, pemc

The default model is the last in the list assigned to MODELS in the Makefile.
Currently, it is ak135.  To select alternative models, use, e.g.

   ttimes -model iasp91

where the model name can be any in the previous list.

This version is made from a configure file.  To configure and install:

./configure
make
make install
make clean

This will build a default set of travel time tables for all models.  To build
a smaller set of tables by eliminating the depth phase arrivals for core
reflections and multiple core phases, use the --disable-depth option:

./configure --disable-depth

To enable generation of multiple core bounce phases (PmKP m=3,4 and SmKS
m=3,4,5), configure with --enable-core option:

./configure --enable-core

This can be used in conjunction with --disable-depth.

Default install location for travel time tables and linkable subroutine code
is /usr/local/lib, and for the ttimes program is /usr/local/bin.  See

./configure --help

for directions explaining how to change this.  The file tpttsub.o is a
subroutine interface to the tables, which is installed in the library directory.
See tptt.f for how to call the subroutines.
